[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Jeremy Ray is with us.
We've got an amazing
program for you.
Chief investigator
of MUFON Colorado,
has spent 20 years researching
and investigating UFOs.
That's a great job.
>>JEREMY RAY: Thank you, sir.
>>NOORY: How did you
get involved in this?
>>RAY: I didn't believe in UFOs
when I was growing up as a kid.
And then I saw one
in my neighborhood.
And that one day
changed my whole life.
>>NOORY: You were hooked.
>>RAY: Oh, yeah, it was
a reality transformation
type of event for me, absolutely
made me question everything.
>>NOORY: Jeremy, the Mutual
UFO Network, of course,
stands for this acronym of
UFOs all over the country.
You've got branches everywhere.
And you folks do a great job,
so thank you for what you do.
>>RAY: Thank you, sir, yep.
>>NOORY: Now, what
is your primary role
with Colorado MUFON?
>>RAY: Well, right now, my
title is chief investigator.
What happens is most of the
UFOs that come to Colorado,
they come to my desk.
And then what I do is
I try to figure out
where I'm going to send it to.
I basically assign it
to other investigators.
I also train, and we
host monthly meetings
at a convention
center in Denver.
And I also recruit for
more investigators.
>>NOORY: What type of reports
have been coming to your desk?
>>RAY: I would
say we usually get
a UFO report every other day.
I mean--
>>NOORY: That's
pretty predominant.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
And most of them are over
Cheyenne Mountain, Pikes Peak,
and Peterson Space Force Base.
>>NOORY: What are
the reports like?
>>RAY: Well, we usually
get two of those a month.
So I would say that those are
like a hot spot for Colorado
right now.
That's been going on for
about six to seven months.
The type of reports
that we get, everything
from a simple
maneuver to anomalies
to a flyby or close encounter.
>>NOORY: Do they
describe the craft?
>>RAY: Yes, sir, absolutely.
>>NOORY: And is it
the typical UFO shape?
>>RAY: We've had Tic Tacs.
I mean, typical UFO--
there's a whole range
of different types of shapes
that are out there-- diamond,
pyramid, oval, cigar shape.
Tic Tac has been popping
up a lot these days.
>>NOORY: How long does it take
to investigate a case, Jeremy?
>>RAY: Sometimes you
can do it real quick.
But most of the time,
it takes me a long time.
Keep in mind we are all--
>>NOORY: What's a long time?
>>RAY: I could spend a
couple of weeks on a case.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: And, generally,
what do you conclude?
>>RAY: Well, what
we do is we have
a really long, lengthy
checklist of things
that we have to rule out.
And if we can't come--
I mean, we've got to figure out
if it's a satellite, a drone,
helicopter, airplane.
We have tools, things
like Flightradar24.
Heavens-Above is an awesome
website that tracks satellites.
So we got this checklist
that we go through.
And if we can't come to a
down-to-earth explanation, what
we do is we'll label
it as an unknown.
And it doesn't mean it's
an extraterrestrial vehicle
from somewhere else.
It just means that we went
through our entire checklist,
and we're not able to
identify the object.
>>NOORY: Forensic
analyst Seth Feinstein
breaks down a UFO sighting
hovering over Denver, Colorado,
with amazing accuracy.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>SETH FEINSTEIN: We had a
little white illuminated object
move into position over
the Denver Post building.
It hovered for a bit and then
took off towards the mountains.
We had three theories for
what the object could be.
It was a helicopter.
It was a drone, or
it was an unknown.
The first thing we did
with our photo analysis
was to authenticate the video.
We were able to confirm the
date, the time, and what
device took the video.
And we saw no signs of
photoshopping or cloning.
The object changed direction,
stopped, and started
and hovered.
There was no sound,
but it was distant.
I pulled still
images from the video
to be able to conduct
photo forensic tests.
This is a typical
look for an object
in the distance
of, say, one half
of a mile to one mile at night.
A cell phone camera
lens will typically
pick up noise and create
artifacts as blurry and fuzzy
in their effect.
My job in the
identification process
is to remove any noise and
artifacts that I can remove
and then to find the
detail and gain clues
to make an identification.
The second image I would like
to point out from this case
is a luminance gradient shot.
Here, we used a
different settings
to define the shape
of the object,
utilizing light and
shadow reflections.
With this image, we can see
that the object in question
was circular, a circular
window facing the witness.
And there is a jet out to
the right, which appears
may have a circular window too.
If this were a helicopter,
I would see a tail.
I would also see air disturbance
from rotating blades or maybe
the blades themselves.
If it were a drone, I would see
night or anti-collision lights.
I would see an air
disturbance of fan blades.
Most importantly,
a drone is remote
controlled from the ground.
The object flew far
away, too far away
to be remote controlled, remote
controlled from the ground.
With a 90% surety, this
object was determined
to be an unidentified object.
>>NOORY: What an
amazing case, Jeremy.
>>RAY: Yeah, I
was actually there
when that happened,
believe it or not.
>>NOORY: Did you see it?
>>RAY: No, we had
a MUFON symposium
at a hotel called
the Sheraton that was
one block away from that site.
The individual that
filmed that video
was an attendee to
the MUFON symposium.
He lived up in Canada.
And he was out walking,
exploring downtown area,
and that's what
he caught on tape.
I was pulling security at
the time at the symposium,
make sure everybody
paid that came in.
And I actually assigned
that case to myself.
And what happened
was during that time,
I was offered a job
at Lockheed Martin.
And I decided to hand that
case over to Seth Feinstein
because it needed
more attention.
>>NOORY: How many
cases like that do
you get where the conclusion
is this unidentified?
>>RAY: I would say--
that's a good question.
60% to 70% is my best guess.
>>NOORY: That's a lot.
>>RAY: No, no, no,
we could identify it.
>>NOORY: Oh, OK.
>>RAY: And then the rest could
fall into the unknown category,
or it could be an unknown UAP.
>>NOORY: 30% to 40%.
>>RAY: Well, we got a couple
that would fit into there.
So an unknown, I would say,
would be in the 10% bracket.
But we do categorize
unknowns as unknown others.
That could be an anomalous
light or dimensional type craft.
And then you have
unknown UAP, which would
be like a solid structure.
And then, of course, we've got
things like hoax, keystroke,
and other case depositions
that we come up with.
But yeah, unknowns would be--
yeah, I would say it
ranges on the month.
It's not--
>>NOORY: All you need is one.
>>RAY: Oh, we've
got more than one.
Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: It is pretty dramatic.
Does Colorado seem to
have a lot of UFO reports?
>>RAY: I would say so,
yes, sir, especially
around military installations.
>>NOORY: Well, what
does that tell you?
>>RAY: Either it's our guys
testing some awesome stuff,
or it could be,
whatever this is,
is pulling surveillance on
our military installations.
>>NOORY: How important is it
to get video, like we just saw?
>>RAY: It's very important.
That way, what's
really great is--
I'd always recommend when
people are filming at night time
to make sure that you've
got a telephone pole
or something in the background.
Don't zoom up on the object.
This video that we just watched,
you could see the building.
And there was other
angles that the guy had.
I think the UFO
got out of range.
And he had to walk
around the building,
and he got a different angle.
So it gives us a triangulation
of how big the object might
be as long as we have some--
>>NOORY: That seemed
like a pretty good size.
>>RAY: If it's a mile away,
it would be a pretty big size.
Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>RAY: And it does look like
what Seth was talking about.
There was a circular
part of the object.
And then he called it a jet out.
I guess I would call
it a windowsill.
But it looks like if you
were inside the object,
there's a part that's
stuck out from the window.
In the video, we were
always contemplating on,
is it a drone?
Is it not a drone?
Is there somebody inside it
that's piloting the craft?
>>NOORY: Is it an ET?
>>RAY: We're trying
to figure that out.
Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: Robert Bigelow
from Bigelow Aerospace
has done a great job
trying to investigate UFOs.
You know him?
>>RAY: I have met
him personally.
>>NOORY: What do you think?
>>RAY: I think he's
a stand-up guy.
Absolutely.
Actually, I could tell you--
>>NOORY: He puts his
money where his mouth is.
>>RAY: Well, let's
talk about that.
When I met Mr. Bigelow, I
was a young whippersnapper.
And I was so excited.
I didn't really
know much about him.
But I was excited at some
wealthy billionaire was
coming in funding UFO research.
If I was a billionaire,
that's what I would do, right?
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>RAY: So I ran up to
him, and I shook his hand.
And I said, sir,
I just want to--
>>NOORY: Got down on your knee
and genuflected it, right?
>>RAY: No, I didn't
do that much.
But I did say, thank
you, sir, for using
your hard-earned money
to fund UFO research.
And he chuckled, and he
goes, it's not my money.
We have sponsors.
And he winked at me and
kind of went over my head
during that time.
But now it totally makes sense.
But yes, I was part
of a STAR team.
I was part of a Bigelow
project with MUFON.
And I was getting paid to
conduct UFO investigations
during that time.
>>NOORY: He just funded a
paranormal research paper
that Jeffrey Mishlove won.
And I think it was like
a half million dollars.
He is into this in a big way.
He's developing little
tiny hotel pods in space.
He wants to get to that.
>>RAY: Yeah, I think he
had a thing up there called
Genesis I and Genesis II.
They were like
deflatable modules.
They were almost
like life rafts.
And instead of working
on it and building it up,
it's already prebuilt. So when
it gets up there, it just--
>>NOORY: Yeah, it's
prefabbed already.
>>RAY: Yep, it just opens up
like a deflatable module, yeah,
very, very interesting.
>>NOORY: What is his
interest in UFOs?
Did he ever tell you?
>>RAY: No, I didn't.
I don't know him.
It was a brief interaction
that I had with him.
But he's been fond of the
paranormal for a long time.
>>NOORY: Well, he's
into it in a big way.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: What is the Star team?
>>RAY: The STAR
team is an acronym
that stands for Strike
Team for Area Research.
It's supposed to be like a
rapid response special unit
to deploy anywhere in the United
States that deals with UFOs
that might have evidence.
During the time when Bigelow
started that project,
it was called the STAR
Impact Project, SIP.
And what it showed
was that MUFON
was very capable of having a
quick reaction force to deploy
at a moment's notice.
We'd get to a site in
less than 24 hours.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>RAY: Everything was taken care
of, your hotel, your flight,
per diem, you name it.
You just needed to make
sure your car was packed,
and you were on call.
>>NOORY: And you were all very
professional at what you do.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: What has been the
most astounding case that
has come across your desk?
>>RAY: Well, there
are many of them.
I'll talk about the one that
I did for the Bigelow case
when Robert Bigelow
was funding MUFON.
I had a case where
two individuals
were driving on the road.
They were on vacation.
They were heading back to
Texas, and a UFO took them
while they were in the car.
They had no memory
of the abduction,
but their memories
came back to them.
So they had a rental car.
They were driving down the road.
Basically, a
saucer-shaped object
came over, like the
bottom of a pie plate,
came right over the
top of their car.
They tried to outrun it.
It zipped off.
And then the passenger
looked out the window
and saw this being running
through the desert,
coming at them,
about to intercept.
He said it was a naked man.
But his head was like
an upside down teardrop.
Like, it was a big head.
And it looked like it
was having a hard time
holding its head up.
But keep in mind
they're driving about--
>>NOORY: Like the typical
alien Greys we hear about.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
This one was tall.
He was going about
85 miles an hour.
And this thing was able
to catch up to the car.
As soon as it got up to the
car, there was a big loud bang.
And the whole car
filled up with, like--
not described as
white light, but more
like you stuck your head
in a mayonnaise jar,
or you stuck your
head in a Kleenex box.
And then there was no
sound, and they felt
like they were being lifted up.
>>NOORY: This was an
aggressive encounter.
>>RAY: For these two guys, yes.
So what happened was
that's all they remember.
But all they know is they
were driving down the road.
And the guy was like--
the passenger was like,
hey, didn't we hit somebody?
And they were like, no,
we didn't hit nobody.
He was like, yeah, remember
that loud bang that we had?
He goes, oh, yeah, that's right.
And they were concerned
because it was a rental car.
So they pulled off
the side of the road.
And they got out, and they
started to walk around the car.
And that's when their
memories all came back to them
because they were feeling--
it was like taken from them.
So Bigelow Aerospace was
very interested in getting
that vehicle so we can get
some readings off of that.
>>NOORY: Get some tests done.
Sure.
>>RAY: And from what I
heard, my part of the job
was just to interview
both witnesses
and write up a report.
Several years later,
I bumped into one
of our science advisors.
His name was Chuck Malden.
His theory was there was a
high electromagnetic radiation
coming off the windshield.
And his theory was that
when they took them,
they didn't open the
doors to pull them out.
They pulled them
through the windshield.
I'll try to explain that.
>>NOORY: Dissolved
them right through.
>>RAY: Just pulled them through.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>RAY: So that was a
very interesting case.
I've had a lot more.
But that one, I'll never forget.
>>NOORY: A lot of volunteers
left MUFON over some government
situation.
>>RAY: Oh, no, the best.
Bigelow Aerospace.
Yeah, when Bigelow stepped
in, he was only there
for a short time, about a year.
And then it was a project.
And MUFON is not a
government entity.
We're a nonprofit organization.
We're all volunteers.
Some people just didn't
like a billionaire
coming in and
funding UFO research.
So we did have some
good people leave.
But it really didn't
disrupt MUFON at all.
It actually showed
that MUFON was
capable of deploying
at a moment's notice,
that we were very
capable of doing so.
>>NOORY: Jeremy, you have
different levels of cases.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: From one to what,
how far out do they go?
>>RAY: Well, actually,
during the Bigelow,
it was categories
one, two, and three.
But now we have five categories.
I can briefly explain that.
>>NOORY: Yeah, what
does each category mean?
>>RAY: So a level
one, basically,
what we use is the Jacques
Vallée classification system.
So a level one would be an
anomaly, a maneuver, a flyby,
or a close encounter.
To become a level
two, you have to have
some kind of physical effects.
So that could be a crop
circle or a tree branch broken
or even a physical effect on
a person, say, a headache or--
>>NOORY: A burn.
>>RAY: A burn or a landing
trace evidence or poltergeist
activity.
I can go on and on
about that but some kind
of physical effect.
Now, to go from two and
three, that's real simple.
Three is beings observed, so if
you saw an entity, either way.
Now, when you go
to four, that would
be abduction, reality
transformation,
which I've gone through
that personally,
or near-death experience.
Now, level five is
injury or death.
So those are the categories.
>>NOORY: Have you
had people die?
>>RAY: No, I've never had a
case where someone has died.
But you hear through the lore
out there in the UFO community
that things like
that have happened.
Pilots disappear.
There are some strange
stories that are out there.
Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: Was Bigelow
the only one who funded?
>>RAY: Actually, like I
said, when I shook his hand
and I asked him, thank you,
sir-- or I didn't ask him.
I said, just thank you, sir,
for funding UFO research.
And he winked at me, and
he goes, it's not my money.
We have sponsors.
Later on down the road,
I found out that--
and it's not just me.
We all found out-- that the
Defense Intelligence Agency
was funding UFO research
during that time between 2008
and 2009.
And Bigelow got a big
chunk of that money.
So that money trickled
down to pay people
like me to go conduct
UFO investigation.
>>NOORY: What conclusions
did you reach?
>>RAY: Well, for that case
alone, that was an unknown.
I also had another one that
we were able to identify.
I only had two
during the project.
We didn't do every UFO case.
It had to be a
high category case.
The findings, just from my
end, one case, an unknown.
But for Bigelow's findings
or whatever he gathered,
I have no idea.
That's unknown to me.
>>NOORY: Did you
get certain emails
from government agencies
or anything like this?
I heard rumors about that.
>>RAY: Sure.
So I had a STAR team manager,
and he was a MUFON guy.
And he would assign
me the cases.
Well, one day, I
received an email.
Now, keep in mind
I'm ex-military.
I used to be in the
82nd Airborne Division.
>>NOORY: You jumped out
of planes, didn't you?
>>RAY: Jumped out of a
perfectly good airplane.
But yeah, so I see an army
email come across my desk.
It had a man's name.
I'm not going to say his name.
But the email address was
his name @usarmy.mil, M-I-L.
So I open it up,
and I'm reading it.
And it sounded like they
were assigning me a UFO case.
And I was like, well, what
does the Army have to do with--
I'm just trying to put
two and two together.
But I'm assuming
that was an accident.
But, of course, I'm
an investigator.
I just can't sit
there and contemplate
what this is all about.
So I picked up the phone
and called the guy.
And I talked to
him on the phone.
But he worked in the Pentagon.
And when I asked him, what does
this got to do with MUFON--
I'll just make
this long a short--
he goes, oh, well,
I'm a MUFON member.
And I'm also a
MUFON investigator.
>>NOORY: There you go.
>>RAY: And I was
like, OK, well, it
just kind of went over my head.
I was just so gung-ho
about doing the case that I
didn't really care about this.
But when you think about it now
and look back on it, of course,
it makes sense.
>>NOORY: Did you have a
chance to analyze the Tic Tac
video from the fighter jets?
>>RAY: I am not a photo analyst.
But I will tell
you that one thing
that's uncanny to me
about the Tic Tac UFO--
and I've had a lot of people
argue with me about it--
is that there's
these prongs that are
on the bottom of the Tic Tac.
They're bent backward Ls.
They come like this.
And I've seen that type of
antenna on other devices
that we make, like
intercontinental ballistic
missiles or torpedoes
or whatever.
I'm just curious why
aliens need antennas.
So I'm kind of on the fence
on what the Tic Tac UFO is,
whether it's ours, or
it's somebody else's.
Until we get more evidence
or more information
coming forward, then I'll know.
But it's still an unknown to me.
>>NOORY: If it were
somebody else's,
don't you think they would be
using it against us by now?
>>RAY: I've thought
of many theories.
Wouldn't it be interesting to
fly some of our high-tech craft
around fighter pilots
and see how they react?
If it is a foreign country,
then we're in a lot of trouble.
>>NOORY: You risked
the fact that they
may shoot against you.
>>RAY: Correct.
But I believe that
Commander Fravor
was doing a training mission.
I don't think he had live ammo.
>>NOORY: Ammo.
And maybe they knew that.
>>RAY: Maybe.
I don't know.
I'm not going to go
down to conspiracy
train on what-if scenarios.
But it is interesting.
Now, of course, the flight
characteristics of this Tic
Tac, the inertia effect
would probably kill a pilot
as fast as it's going.
So if there is
somebody on board,
there's got to be some kind
of anti-inertia device,
especially when they're
dropping a mile a second.
>>NOORY: Are the cameras
important on the fighter
jets to record these things?
>>RAY: I hope somebody
in Raytheon or somebody
out there has come up with
a awesome camera system that
is specifically
designed to detect UFOs,
especially when
they're invisible.
Maybe you could pick
up their heat signature
or whatever they have.
Yes, it's important, but will
we ever get to see this stuff?
Well, I hope we do
in the near future.
>>NOORY: So you flew a lot.
Did you ever see
anything strange?
>>RAY: Oh, yes, I've had a
multiple of UFO encounters
through my entire life, so never
out of an airplane or anything
like that just, on the ground.
So--
>>NOORY: The
cameras you've seen,
have you seen any strange
videos other than the Tic Tac?
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
I've actually seen
more Tic Tacs.
We had a case--
it was a Texas case.
But it was a military
intelligence officer
that took a picture
outside of a C-130.
It could have been
a C-130 or C-17.
And there's a Tic Tac
flying right out the window.
And--
>>NOORY: What are they, Jeremy?
What are they?
>>RAY: I don't know.
I guess we could just
label it as unidentified.
>>NOORY: Have these
pilots come forward?
>>RAY: Most of the time, when
it's spectacular footage,
they want to remain anonymous.
So it's like a doctor-patient
confidentiality agreement.
We don't talk about these cases.
>>NOORY: All right, one of
the big stories, of course,
are the congressional
hearings in the UFOs
with these incredible
military whistleblowers, guys
who are not lying.
They're telling the
truth about what
they've seen and witnessed.
What do you think of that?
>>RAY: Well, I've been
watching this case,
and it's been
evolving over time.
Just recently,
David Grusch, he's
a decorated military
intelligence officer.
And he's putting his butt on
the line to come out big time.
And his wife has
been threatened.
He's been threatened.
And right now--
>>NOORY: What about
the pilot Ryan Graves?
>>RAY: Whoever's in charge of
these projects and operations
definitely don't want
this to be disclosed.
So they're doing whatever
they can to discredit
the whistleblowers.
What really makes my blood
boil is that they put out
a psychological-- they actually
leaked his medical records
of him having post-traumatic
stress disorder to try
to show that he's not credible.
If he wasn't credible,
they would have--
and if that was a problem, they
would have jerked his security
clearance away from him.
>>NOORY: Immediately.
>>RAY: So as me being a
veteran, that makes me mad.
I think this guy is
an American hero.
And I think in the
future, this will go down
in the history books,
not just for America
but for the whole world.
>>NOORY: Well, let's talk about
Ryan Graves and David Grusch
and show people
watching "Beyond Belief"
what we're talking about.
>>RYAN GRAVES: In 2014,
I was an F-18 Foxtrot
pilot in the Navy Fighter Attack
Squadron 11, the Red Rippers.
And I was stationed at NAS
Oceana in Virginia Beach.
After upgrades were made
to our jets' radar systems,
we began detecting
unknown objects operating
in our airspace.
During a training mission
in warning area Whiskey-72,
10 miles off the coast
of Virginia Beach,
two F-18 Super Hornets
were split by a UAP.
The object, described
as a dark gray
or a black cube inside
of a clear sphere,
came within 50 feet
of the lead aircraft
and was estimated to be
5 to 15 feet in diameter.
The mission commander terminated
the flight immediately
and returned to base.
Soon, these encounters
became so frequent
that aircrew would
discuss the risk of UAP
as part of their regular
preflight briefs.
>>TIM BURCHETT: Has the
US government became aware
of actual evidence of
extraterrestrial otherwise
unexplained forms
of intelligence?
And if so, when do you
think this first occurred?
>>DAVID GRUSCH: I'd like
to use the term nonhuman.
I don't like to denote origin.
It keeps the aperture
open both scientifically.
Certainly, like I've discussed
publicly, previously in 1930s.
>>NANCY MACE: If you believe
we have crashed craft,
as stated earlier, do we have
the bodies of the pilots who
piloted this craft?
>>GRUSCH: Biologics came with
some of these recoveries, yeah.
>>MACE: Were they, I guess,
human or nonhuman biologics?
>>GRUSCH: Nonhuman, and
that was the assessment
of people with direct
knowledge on the program I
talked to that are currently
still on the program.
>>RYAN GRAVES: In
the 2003 timeframe,
a large group of
Boeing contractors
were operating near one of the
launch facilities at Vandenberg
Air Force base when they
observed a very large 100
yard sided red square approach
the base from the ocean
and hover at low altitude over
one of the launch facilities.
This object remained
for about 45 seconds
or so before darting
off over the mountains.
There were reports
of other sightings
on base, including some
aggressive behaviors.
These objects were
approaching some
of the security guards at rapid
speeds before darting off.
And this is information
that was received
through one of
the witnesses that
have approached me at
Americans for Safe Aerospace.
>>ROBERT GARCIA:
Mr. Grusch, finally,
do you believe that
our government is
in possession of UAPs?
>>GRUSCH: Absolutely.
Based on interviewing over
40 witnesses over four years.
>>GARCIA: And where?
>>GRUSCH: I know
the exact locations.
And those locations were
provided to the Inspector
General and some of which to
the intelligence committees.
I actually had the people
with the firsthand knowledge
provide a protected disclosure
to the Inspector General.
>>NOORY: This is just
beginning, Jeremy,
to become an amazing story.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: I'm excited about it.
How about you?
>>RAY: I'm excited about it too.
From what I've heard
through the grapevine,
there's more
whistleblowers that have
more explosive information.
To me, it's the drip, drip, drip
and then flood of information
that's going to be coming.
>>NOORY: What about the
biologics that he hinted about?
How important is that?
>>RAY: I've looked at the
definition of biologics.
I'm trying to understand why
they use that terminology.
They changed their acronyms
around, like UFO to UAP.
And then they changed
the UAP to, what was it,
Unidentified Aerial Phenomena.
Now it's Unidentified
Anonymous Phenomenon.
And now we're going to NHI,
which is nonhuman intelligence,
I believe.
I think I'm correct on that.
Well, basically, what he's
saying is it's not us.
He would have used a term human.
So it's obviously
something else.
Hopefully, we'll be
able, in the near future,
to get to see what
these things look like.
To me, disclosure is happening.
But I've been involved in this
UFO stuff for a long, long time
that it's nice
that we got talking
heads talking about this stuff.
But I believe that
real disclosure
is going to be the day where
we get to hold it in our hands.
We get to touch the metallurgy.
We get to experience
it for ourselves.
>>NOORY: Kick the
tires, so to speak.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
I'm looking forward to that.
But I think there's probably
some really awesome satellite
footage and fighter jet footage
that hasn't been disclosed yet.
And I'm looking
forward for that.
That's going to be amazing.
>>NOORY: Jimmy Carter
wanted to know about it.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: Barack Obama
wanted to know about it.
Bill Clinton wanted
to know about it.
I wonder if they ever
got their answers.
>>RAY: I heard that Jimmy
Carter received a briefing.
During that time, George Bush
was the director of the CIA.
And he basically told him, you
have to have a need to know.
But I think Jimmy did
finally get his UFO briefing.
And when he came out,
he wasn't the same man.
He was visibly shaken and
disturbed sobbing, so to speak.
That's what was told.
And then, of course, we
can go back to Nixon.
Nixon was good friends
with Jackie Gleason.
>>NOORY: The comedian.
>>RAY: And one day, Jackie
Gleason, a car pulled up,
and it was Richard Nixon.
No Secret Service, nobody.
He was like, get in the car.
I want to show you something.
And they drove him down
to an Air Force base.
>>NOORY: Homestead in Florida.
>>RAY: I was trying not to--
yeah, Homestead, Florida.
Went there and basically showed
Jackie Gleason the bodies.
And Jackie Gleason's wife
said that changed him.
>>NOORY: Shocked him.
>>RAY: Shocked him.
He didn't eat for
a week, kind of
lost his funny sense of humor.
But yeah, Jackie
Gleason and Nixon,
they were good golfing buddies.
And they would talk
about UFOs all the time.
>>NOORY: Gleason was
obsessed with it.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: Do you
think disclosure will
happen besides the
hearing we just saw?
>>RAY: I believe it will
happen in your lifetime,
in my lifetime, sir.
But my definition of disclosure
is holding the evidence--
>>NOORY: What does the
government say, Jeremy?
How do they admit after all
these years they held back
information from us?
What did they say?
>>RAY: That's a tough one.
It would be wise
if they go back--
I know we've heard
Roswell a thousand times--
but go back to the
history of ufology
to the normal people that are
not into this kind of stuff,
get them up to speed so we don't
cause a panic, like yelling
bomb and fire on an airplane.
I'm pretty sure there's good
and bad involved in this.
And I don't know how
they're going to do this.
I'm interested to see
in how it plays out.
But for you and me,
just show us the stuff.
But there's a lot
of people out there
that don't even believe in this.
And they're about to have the
rug pulled out from under them.
>>NOORY: I think what they will
say is, for defensive purposes,
we needed to keep this
confidential within our country
and with our allies.
We couldn't go public with it.
We wanted to.
But if we did, it would
affect some of our enemies
who are truly out there.
>>RAY: Oh, that reminds me
of what Colonel Corso said.
He authored the book
"The Day After Roswell."
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>RAY: He basically said
that they had the technology.
They would give it to people
that were working on it,
whether it was Purdue
University or wherever.
And they'd say, figure
out how it works
and then give it back to
us for the competitive edge
of the military.
So--
>>NOORY: Do you folks
within MUFON say, why now?
Why are they beginning
to do this now?
>>RAY: Yes, we do say that.
There's been many
discussions where
I've had a guy say
this is the same thing
that Donald Keyhole
did back in the day.
This is nothing
new under the sun.
I'd have to argue
with that because this
is the first time in
Congress that they brought up
that we do have crash
recovered vehicles.
And David knows the location,
and that we do have bodies.
And so this is history.
I know this is a big step
forward for this movement,
if that's what you
want to call it.
I call it searching
for the truth.
>>NOORY: They didn't bring
up Roswell specifically
during the hearing.
I didn't hear that.
>>RAY: No, no, but it just meant
that it's not something new
that's just started right now.
This has been going on way
before you and me been around.
>>NOORY: Are you excited
about the future?
>>RAY: I am.
I'm really hoping that a
lot of these black projects,
a lot of these
technology will come out
so it can benefit us instead
of being locked in some vault.
And I'm talking
medical advancements,
propulsion advancements that
could really benefit mankind.
>>NOORY: You're an
intuitive guy, Jeremy.
What does your gut tell you?
>>RAY: My gut tells me that
we're not being told the truth.
>>NOORY: Still.
>>RAY: Still.
But there's a little
bit coming out.
I think we will
get to the truth.
But there's always
somebody with an agenda.
Maybe they might push this in
saying that they're a threat,
so they get more money
for their defense budget.
That's just an
example out of many.
And so I do feel that there is
something misleading going on.
But I'm keeping a skeptical
and open mind about it.
>>NOORY: They seem to imply
that there's something
dangerous about some of these.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: I don't think so.
I think they would have
destroyed us a long time ago.
>>RAY: Correct.
I think the only time that
they did become dangerous
is when we're the ones
that would provoke.
So if we are locking on a UFO
or we're going to fire on it,
then it does make sense
that they would retaliate.
There's many cases of
stories like this in Vietnam,
during the Korean War,
where we were engaged--
>>NOORY: World War
II, the Foo fighters.
>>RAY: The Foo fighters.
But yet most of the time,
when things went nasty
with pilots and UFOs, we
initiated first to engage.
So--
>>NOORY: Seth Feinstein
shares a UFO report
that appeared over a Space Force
facility in Colorado Springs.
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>FEINSTEIN: At our Colorado
MUFON state meetings,
people always ask us,
where are the most
sightings in the state?
The most sighting
reports we receive
are in the Colorado Springs
area near Cheyenne Mountain
and the Space Force Base.
We have a very interesting case.
And the witness says, I was
looking southeast outside
of my window from the third
floor after working out.
I noticed a shimmering
orb that stood out
in a relatively clear sky.
I viewed the object
approximately three minutes
before it disappeared.
It moved relatively
slowly but made
frequent directional changes,
unable to determine distance
from my location.
I am a space ops officer and
have experience as an Air Force
pilot.
Well, that sounds to me
like a pilot's report.
And the photo analysis was on.
We were able to authenticate
the video footage
and pull the metadata.
I made a still
shot from the video
to attempt to identify the
object floating in the video.
8x magnification histogram,
contrast, and noncontrast
reveal a small white dot.
The pixelated image
included with the report,
the object is clearly
defined in shape.
It is a bell-shaped
object with two antennas,
like protrusions
coming off the top.
And the one thing for sure
about these types of objects
is that no one has ever
claimed that these objects are
terrestrial.
Therefore, this case
disposition for this sighting
near the Space Force
Base in Colorado Springs
is unidentified.
>>NOORY: Truly remarkable.
It's exciting.
>>RAY: We got many of
those at MUFON, tons.
So it's exciting for someone who
hasn't seen things like this.
But I've been doing
this for 18 years.
And they're a dime a dozen.
If anybody is interested in
getting involved and wanting
to become an investigator,
MUFON grants that opportunity.
>>NOORY: How do they find you?
>>RAY: They can get on MUFON
website, www.mufon.com.
There's a couple
of tabs in there.
One, you can report a
UFO if you've seen it,
or there's another tab to
become an investigator.
Just follow the steps.
And then, usually, we
meet up with the people,
and we train them.
And yeah, we take it from there.
>>NOORY: Do you think the
creation of the Space Force
is done to look at our
enemies or to look at ETs?
>>RAY: I actually will
take it to the next level.
I think Space Force has
been around a lot longer.
It's just been finally--
>>NOORY: You may be right there.
>>RAY: It might be
finally acknowledged.
Now, I know that Space
Force deals with cyberspace,
satellite communications.
If there's anything
to deal with--
actually, they have a
section called Guardians.
I find that interesting.
But yeah, I don't know, George.
That's a really good question.
>>NOORY: Well, Jeremy, thank
you for doing what you're doing.
Keep doing what you're doing.
If people want to get a hold
of you personally, can they?
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
You can reach me at--
email is raymufon-- so
R-A-Y, M-U-F-ON-- @yahoo.com.
Also, I'm on Facebook if
you want to friend me.
But I usually don't
talk on my wall.
But I will private
message anybody.
>>NOORY: What is the
next future for MUFON?
>>RAY: Well, there is a lot of
interesting projects going on.
I'm tight-lipped about it.
I know some.
But let me just put
it to you this way.
Congress is talking to MUFON.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>RAY: Yes, sir.
>>NOORY: You think they
will disclose through MUFON?
>>RAY: No, but maybe there
might be some opportunities
in their future.
>>NOORY: Something mutual?
>>RAY: Something that
maybe we-- well, yes, we'd
share information, anything
that they need or vice versa.
Maybe we can be utilized.
That's all me making this up in
my head because I don't know.
But we are talking to Congress.
>>NOORY: Jeremy, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>RAY: Thank you,
George, for inviting me.
>>NOORY: Since I
was a little boy,
I believed in
extraterrestrial life
when my mother gave me a book
by the late "New York Times"
science writer Walter Sullivan
called "We Are Not Alone."
And after discussions with
people like Jeremy Ray,
I realize--
and one day, I'll be vindicated.
I'm sure of that.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]